Christopher Sanchez - Capstone Project Proposal Step 2

Original Link: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LQl8UXuypL95N_y-f1PEVzCBTWsSF8hxAffGFB1Sqo4/edit?usp=sharing

	
Description:
	The title of the app is StrictlyAlbums. The focus is on rating music albums generated by the Spotify API. Users can create an account, can search and rate their favorite albums and give them reviews. They can also add albums to their own playlists. 

Stack Focus:
	For my project, I will use React and Node as the tech stack. Out of all the programming tools I have learned throughout this course, I am most comfortable with using React and Node for my final capstone project. This will be a fullstack project, making use of a server connected backend, and user pages for the frontend. I will use postgresql to create a database that can connect with my project.

Type:
	I will be focusing on making a functional website for the desktop.

Goal:
	Showcase my understanding of the tools I have learned in this course. Showcase a website with a functioning ability to create users, link to APIs, add and update information on a user page, add capabilities such as rating an album with visual images and make it aesthetically pleasing.

Users:
	User demographic can be anyone who listens to music. There is no age range restriction. All music genres will be accepted, thus inviting a wide demographic of users from all ages.

Data:
	I ideally would like to use the Spotify API to generate music details. I want the API to contain the artist name, the name of the song, and possibly the album cover artwork. I would like to be able to connect the music information to the actual song on Spotify if the user has a premium account. The user will be able to link to songs on Spotify for the purpose of review, sharing, and creating playlists.
	I am also looking into API’s that contain information about upcoming concerts and events. I would like users to be able to add upcoming concerts they want to attend to their page.


What does your database schema look like?
    https://imgur.com/a/hajwyMz


What kinds of issues might you run into with your API? This is especially important if you are creating your own API, web scraping produces notoriously messy data.
	There might be difficulties finding a functional API. I just need access to the song title, artist name, album title, genre, and Spotify link. There will likely be a ton of other additional data values. Both album title and genre might have multiple entries for the same song. There will probably be a ton of other information I do not want to use that will require a work around.


Is there any sensitive information you need to secure?
    User passwords will need to be password protected. Admins should be the only users who can adjust information from other users such as deleting their posts or playlists when necessary.


What functionality will your app include?
	Allow users to create profiles, add playlists, rate songs and albums.


What will the user flow look like? 
    Homepage has a Signup and Login option. User is then logged into a dashboard where they can see their previous rated albums and user created lists. On the dashboard there are navigation links to search for albums and creating playlists.


What features make your site more than a CRUD app? What are your stretch goals? 
    I originally wanted to connect users and be able to locate and share local concerts. The Spotify API did not allow that, and it is difficult to create an app where users can interact. After working on it for several weeks I think the most complicated part was designing a form that links to the Spotify API and gives users the ability to rate and review the albums.
